1) why are you leaving current job ?
Ans- So may her why are you leaving your current job and now looking for an opportunity that is more aligned to my long term career goals? I have learned a lot here, and its been great. But to grow my career further, I need to expose myself to new challenges. Im ready to take on more responsibilities, but unfortunately, there are no leadership positions at my current organisation. I look forward to bringing my skills from my previous job to your company. Follow me for more. How to answer why you leaving your

2) Five responses that you can give if you don't know the answer to an interview question. 
Ans- i) thank you for asking this question. However, I'm not very well acquainted with this subject, but I can show you that I will do some research around this. 
ii) right now, I would be able to provide you with an exact answer, but I can show you that I'm a fast learner and will be able to learn very quickly under your mentorship.
iii) I can't think of an exact answer. I would request you to allow me sometime, and we can come back on this later. 
iv) I did not understand the question properly. Could you please simplify and rephrase it? I don't want to misinterpret it.
v) while I don't have much experience in X scale, but I do have proper knowledge of Y. If the job requires me to learn X scale, i'll be excited to expand my knowledge. Save this so you don't forget and follow your interview. Coach Diksha Roda to ace your interview

3) Why should I hire you?
Ans-  i)Over the years I have acquired relevant skills and experience, which I shall bring to an organisation. I have also tirelessly worked on improving my communication mobilities and teamwork schemes, 
ii) especially for freshers. This is a wonderful opportunity that I am being interviewed at. Such a reported domination, even though I am fresher, I assure that I will give my best and work to my full potential so they can contribute to work growth and welfare of this brand 
iii) I feel I should be hired by given my excellent academic background with the scale and experience I which the company is looking for.

4) what are your hobbies ?
Ans- Number two helps me to be in shape. Number three helps me to grow my creativity. Number 4 helps me to build a stronger mindset. And number 5 that helps me to stay connected with them with my inner self. And this completely blew my mind. I was shocked by the amount of maturity that I showed in an interview. So ugly bar apps ago
