Q) What is JavaScript?
Ans- JavaScript is a high-level, object-oriented and interpreted programming language primarily used for adding interactivity and dynamic behavior to web pages.

Q- What are the key features of JavaScript?
Ans- Dynamic typing: JavaScript is a dynamically typed language, which means that variables do not need to be declared with a specific data type. The data type of a variable is determined by the value that is assigned to it.

Interpreted: JavaScript is an interpreted language, which means that it is not compiled into machine code before it is executed. Instead, JavaScript code is interpreted by the browser or other runtime environment at the time it is executed.

Object-oriented: JavaScript is an object-oriented language, which means that it supports the concept of objects. Objects are collections of data and functions that act together as a single unit.

Prototype-based object-orientation: is a style of object-oriented programming where classes are not explicitly defined. Instead, classes are derived by adding methods and properties to an empty object 
Functions as first-class objects: This means that functions can be treated like any other data type, such as numbers, strings, or objects. Functions can be assigned to variables, passed as arguments to other functions, and returned from functions.
undefined means a variable has been declared but has not yet been assigned a value, while null is an assignment value representing a deliberate absence of any value.

Q- How JS works behind the scene ?
Ans-  
1. Parsing - When a browser encounters a JavaScript code block. The parser breaks down the code into tokens and creates a syntax tree(also known as abstract syntax tree or AST).
2. Comilation & Execution - JS engine compiles the code into executable machine code using JIT compilation. The compiled code is then executed line by line, following the order of statements in the code.
3. Execution context - Environment in which a piece of js is executed. Stores all the necessary information for some code to be executed.
It consist of Variable environment, Scope chain and This keyword.
These execution contexts are organized in a stack known as CALL STACK.
4. Event loop and Asynchronous Execution- JS is single threaded or synchronous, meaning it can only execute one operation at a time. 
However, JavaScript also has a number of asynchronous features, such as callbacks, promises, and async/await, which is possible because of an EVENT LOOP mechanism. It keeps looking for task in the task queue and executes them when the call stack is empty. These features allow JavaScript code to run in the background without blocking the main thread
5. Memory Management- JS engine have built-in garbage collectors that automatically manage memory allocation and deallocation and leds memory optimization.

Q- What is the event loop in JavaScript and how does it work?
Ans- The event loop is a mechanism in JavaScript that allows asynchronous operations to be executed in a non-blocking manner by handling callbacks from the callback queue when the call stack is empty.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q) What are the different datatypes present in javascript?
Ans-
1. Primitive types => Primitive data types can store only a single value
String: Represents a sequence of characters. For example, "hello".
Number: Represents numeric values. For example, 100.
BigInt: Represents integers with arbitrary magnitude.
Boolean: Represents a boolean value, either false or true.
Undefined: Represents an undefined value.
Null: Represents no value at all.
Symbol: Represents a unique value that can be used as an identifier or key in objects.
2. Non-Primitive types => To store multiple and complex values, non-primitive data types are used.
Example: Objects

Q) Explain the concept of promises in JavaScript.
Ans- Promises are objects representing the eventual completion or failure of an asynchronous operation. They allow you to handle asynchronous operations more easily by chaining .then() and .catch() methods.

Promise is ceated using "Promise" constructor which takes 2 parameter resolve and reject. we call resolve(value) if when the asynchronous task completes successfully, else reject() if fails.

Q) What is strict mode ?
Ans- =>“use strict” is not a statement but a literal expression
=> It instructs the browser to use the strict mode
=> It stops using implicitly declared variables.
=> It helps developers to write mode secure and efficient code by catching common mistakes and potential bug

Q) Explain call(), apply() and, bind() methods?
Ans- 
=> call()
=> It is a predefined method in JS
=> call() method invokes the method by specifying the owner object and it can also accept the arguments

apply()
=> apply() methods is similar as call() methods but it takes arguments as array

bind()
=> This method returns a new function, where the value of “this” keyword will be bound to the owner object, which is provided as a parameter.

Q) What are closures and how do you use them?
Ans- 
=> Closures are functions in which inner function have access to the outer lexical scope(function's variables), even after the outer function has finishes executing. 
=> Closures are a fundamental concept in JavaScript that allow functions to retain access to their lexical scope even after the outer function has finished executing. This unique feature of JavaScript makes closures incredibly powerful and versatile for a variety of use cases  
=> Closures can be used to create private variables and methods, allowing you to encapsulate data and provide controlled access.

Q) What are the advantages of JavaScript over other web technologies?
Ans-These are the advantages of JavaScript:

=>Enhanced Interaction
JavaScript adds interaction to otherwise static web pages and makes them react to users’ inputs.

=>Quick Feedback
There is no need for a web page to reload when running JavaScript. For example, form input validation.

=>Rich User Interface
JavaScript helps in making the UI of web applications look and feel much better.

=>Frameworks
JavaScript has countless frameworks and libraries that are extensively used for developing web applications and games of all kinds.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q. Explain Hoisting in javascript.
Ans-Hoisting is the default behaviour of javascript where all the variable and function declarations are moved on top.
Example:
a=1;
alert('a='+a);
var a;
Note - Variable initializations are not hoisted, only variable declarations are hoisted:
Note - To avoid hoisting, you can run javascript in strict mode by using “use strict” on top of the code:


Q- What is the difference between == and === in JavaScript?
Ans- == is the equality operator, which performs type coercion before comparing two values, while === is the strict equality operator, which checks for both value and datatype equality without type coercion.


Q- What is the difference between let, const, and var?
Ans- var is function-scoped and can be redeclared and reassigned from the very beginning var keyword is in usage,
let is block-scoped and can be reassigned but not redeclared.
const is also block-scoped but cannot be reassigned or redeclared.


Q- type conversion and type coercion
Ans-  These  two concepts related to how JavaScript handles data types
Type conversion in JavaScript is the explicit conversion of a value from one data type to another Ex. Number("10"), String(), Boolean()
Type coercion, on the other hand, is the implicit conversion of values during evaluation of expressions


Q- Truthy and falsy values
Ans- Values that are considered truthy will evaluate to true when coerced to a boolean. These include:
Non-empty strings ("hello", "0")
Non-zero numbers (e.g., 1, -1)
Objects (including arrays and functions)
true

Values that are considered falsy will evaluate to false when coerced to a boolean. These include:
Empty strings ("")
Zero (0) and negative zero (-0)
null
undefined
NaN (Not a Number)
false


Q- Dot vs bracket notation in object
Ans-  Dot notation and bracket notation are used to access properties of objects, but they have some differences in their usage.
Dot notation is the simpler and more commonly used method for accessing object properties. It involves accessing properties using the dot (.) operator followed by the property name

Bracket notation allows you to access object properties using square brackets ([]) and providing the property name as a string. This notation is more flexible as it allows you to access properties dynamically

Q6 - Destructuring arrays  ES6
Ans- Destructuring in JavaScript allows you to extract/unpack values from arrays and objects, making your code more expressive.

Q7- The spread operator(...)  ES6
Ans- Right side of "=" operator
spread operator is used to expand iterables (like arrays or objects) into individual elements.

Q8- Rest pattern(...)  ES6
Ans- Left side of "=" operator
Rest operator allows you to collect multiple elements into a single array

Q9. Short circuiting (&& and ||) ES6
Ans- where evaluation of an expression stops as soon as the outcome is determined based on the initial part of the expression, without needing to evaluate the entire expression

Q10. Nullish Coalescing Operator (??)  ECMA2020
Ans-  It provides a concise way to handle default values for cases where a variable might be null or undefined, but not for other falsy values like 0 or ''.

Q11- Optional chaining    ES2020
Ans- It allows you to safely access nested properties of an object without having to explicitly check if each property exists

Q12- map() method
Ans-  Iterates over each element of the array, applies a function to each element, and returns a new array with the results of applying the function to each element.

Q13- filter() method
Ans-  Iterates over each element of the array, applies a filtering condition to each element, and returns a new array containing only the elements that satisfy the filtering condition.

Q14- reduce() method
Ans- Iterates over each element of the array, applies a function that accumulates a single value from the elements of the array, and returns the accumulated value.


Q16- What are the differences between undefined and null?
Ans- undefined means a variable has been declared but has not yet been assigned a value, whereas null is an assignment value, meaning that a variable has been declared and given the value of null

Q18- What is the scope in JavaScript?
Ans- Scope refers to the accessibility of variables, functions, and objects in particular parts of your code during runtime.

Q20- Explain the event bubbling and event capturing in JavaScript.
Ans- Event bubbling and capturing are two ways of event propagation in the DOM. In event bubbling, the event starts at the innermost target element and works its way up the DOM tree, while in event capturing, the event starts at the outermost element and moves towards the target element.

Q21- What is the purpose of the this keyword in JavaScript?
Ans- The this keyword in JavaScript is a reference to the context in which a function is called. It provides a way to access the properties and methods of an object within its methods

Q23- Explain the concept of prototype in JavaScript.
Ans- Prototypes are a way to implement inheritance in JavaScript, where objects can inherit properties and methods from other objects through their prototype chain.

Q24- What are some ways to handle asynchronous operations in JavaScript?
Ans- Promises, async/await, and callback functions are common ways to handle asynchronous operations in JavaScript.

Q28- Explain the difference between arrow functions and regular functions in JavaScript.
Ans- Arrow functions have a concise syntax making them useful in writing one-line blocks of code whereas Regular functions are better at handling logic that requires multiple expressions.

Q29- What is a closure? Can you give an example of how you might use one?
Ans- A closure is a function that has access to its outer function's scope even after the outer function has finished executing. An example could be creating a counter function using closure to maintain its state.

Q31- What is the difference between localStorage and sessionStorage?
Ans-
localStorage: Data stored using localStorage persists indefinitely until explicitly deleted by the website or the user.
sessionStorage: Data stored using sessionStorage persists only for the duration of the page session. It is cleared when the page session ends, typically when the browser tab is closed.

Q32- What is lazy loading ?
Ans- Lazy loading is a technique of delaying non-essential resources (such as images, scripts, or stylesheets) until they are needed. This helps to improve the initial loading time and overall performance of a web page.

Q33- How can you optimize the performance of a website/application built with JavaScript?
Ans- Performance optimization techniques include minimizing HTTP requests, using asynchronous loading for resources, optimizing images and media, minimizing and optimizing JavaScript code, using caching strategies, and implementing lazy loading.




