Q. Difference between library and Framework ?
Ans- Library: . It provides specific functionality that can be called upon when needed.

Framework: It includes libraries, tools, guidelines and best practices to structure the development process.

Q. What is React JS ?
Ans- React is a free and open-source front-end JavaScript library for building user interfaces based on components
React is a JavaScript library created for building fast and interactive user interfaces for web and mobile applications.

Q. Problems with JS ?
Ans-
React has a simpler mental model
JS is cumbersome
JS don't provide Reusable Components
JS is Imperative where developer need to define how" to do things step-by-step

Q. Features of react 
Ans- No need to worry about querying and updating DOM
React creates a web page with small and reusable components
React will take care of creating and updating DOM elements
React is declarative where developer describe what the UI should look like for a given state.

Q. Explain "import React from 'react'" ?
Ans- This line imports the core React library, which is necessary to use JSX syntax and create React components.

Q. Explain "import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client'"?
Ans- This line imports the ReactDOM library specifically for creating and managing the DOM nodes.

Q. Explain "ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render"?
Ans- ) ReactDOM.createRoot: This method creates a root React node that can manage the rendering of React components.
) document.getElementById('root'): This selects the HTML element with the id of root where the React app will be mounted.
) render: This method is called to render the specified React elements into the root node.

Q. Explain "<React.StrictMode>"?
Ans- ) React.StrictMode: A wrapper component that helps in identifying potential problems in the application. It does not render any UI itself but activates additional checks and warnings for its descendants.

Q. What is Virtual DOM or ReactDOM ?
Ans- ) React creates a in-memory structure called the virtual DOM
) It's a lightweight representation where each node stands for a component and it's attributes.

) NOTE: React uses a DIFFING algorithm to compare the new virtual DOM tree with the previous one. 

Q. What is Reconciliation Process ?
Ans- ) When component data changes, React updates the virtual DOM's state to mirror these changes
) React then compares the current and previous versions of the virtual DOM
) It identifies the specific nodes that need updating
) Only these nodes are updated in the real browser DOM, making it efficient.

Q. what is components ?
Ans- Components are the building blocks of the user interface. They allow developers to break down the UI into reusable, independent pieces
Components can be either class components or functional components
1) Functional component
> These are simple JavaScript functions that return JSX (JavaScript XML), which describes what the UI should look like. They can accept props as an argument and return React elements
> React Hooks can be used in functional components to handle state and lifecycle methods, making them more powerful and flexible.
2) Class component
> React Hooks can be used in functional components to handle state and lifecycle methods, making them more powerful and flexible.
> )Class components were the only way to use state and lifecycle methods before Hooks were introduced in React 16.8.)

Q. What is State ?
Ans- ) State is a special object that holds data that may change over the component's lifetime.
) Functional components use the useState Hook to manage state, while class components use this.state and this.setState.

Q. What is Lifecycle Method 
Ans- ) Lifecycle methods are special methods in class components that allow you to run code at specific points in a component's lifecycle, such as when it mounts, updates, or unmounts
) With Hooks, functional components can achieve similar behavior using useEffect.

Q. What is JSX ?
Ans- ) It determines how the UI will look wherever the component is used
) JSX get converted to regular JS
) Babeljs.io/repel is a JS compiler that transforms JSX into plain JavaScript. Babel processes your code and converts the JSX syntax into React.createElement calls.

Q. What is Fragments ?
Ans- ) Allows grouping of multiple elements without extra DOM nodes
) Return multiple elements without a wrapping parent which also provides cleaner DOM
) Two syntax 
a) <React.Fragment>....</React.Fragment>
b) <>...</>

Q. What is props and ways of passing data to props ?
Ans- ) Props (short for properties) are read-only attributes(immutable) used to pass data and event handlers from a parent component to a child component.
) Examples of using Props
a) Passing Multiple Props
b) Passing Function as Props
c) Destructuring Props 

Q. Passing Components as children ?
Ans- ) In React, passing components as children is a common pattern that allows you to compose components in a flexible and reusable way. Here’s an example to illustrate how you can pass components as children and manage them within the parent component.
) Accessed with props.children
) Enhances Reusability, Composition, Flexibility

Q. Handling events ?
Ans- React provides a way to handle user interactions like clicks, form submissions, key presses, and more using event handlers
) React events use camelCase. Eg.onClick
) Uses Synthetic events, not direct browser events
) Use onChange for controlled form inputs

Q. Passing Functions via props ?
Ans- This allows a parent component to pass a function down to a child component, which can then call the function to trigger an action or update the state in the parent
) Enables upward communication from child to parent
) Commonly used for event Handling
) Parent defines a function, child invokes it


virtual DOM and actual DOM
2.Features of React
3.JSX
4.can our browser directly understand JSX  => No, browsers can't understand JSX code. You need a transpiler to convert your JSX to regular Javascript that browsers can understand. The most widely used transpiler right now is Babel.
5.webpack
6.Lifecycle component in react
7.unmount
8.refs and props
9.control and uncontrol component
10.High order function
11.state and props
12.router
13.server side rendering