Q1. What is MySQL?
Ans- MySQL is a database management system for web servers. It can grow with the website as it is highly scalable. Most of the websites today are powered by MySQL

Q2. What do you mean by ‘databases’?
Ans- A database is a structured collection of data stored in a computer system and organized in a way to be quickly searched. With databases, information can be rapidly retrieved.

Q3.  What does a MySQL database contain?
Ans- A MySQL database contains one or more tables, each of which contains records or rows. Within these rows are various columns or fields that contain the data itself.

Q4.What are MySQL Database Queries?
Ans- A query is a specific request or a question. One can query a database for specific information and have a record returned

Q5. difference between char and varchar
Ans- CHAR	fixed-length nonbinary(character) string
VARCHAR		variable-length nonbinary string
INTEGER(size)	Equal to INT(size)
DATE	A date. Format: YYYY-MM-DD. The supported range is from '1000-01-01' to '9999-12-31'

Q6.How to add users in MySQL?
You can add a User by using the CREATE command and specifying the necessary credentials. For example:

CREATE USER ‘testuser’ IDENTIFIED BY ‘sample password’;

Q7. What are the types of relationships used in MySQL?
Ans- There are three categories of relationships in MySQL:

One-to-One: Usually, when two items have a one-to-one relationship, you just include them as columns in the same table.
One-to-Many: One-to-many (or many-to-one) relationships occur when one row in one table is linked to many rows in another table.
Many-to-Many: In a many-to-many relationship, many rows in one table are linked to many rows in another table. To create this relationship, add a third table containing the same key column from each of the other tables

Q8. What is join and define different types of joins
Ans- A JOIN clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them.

Different Types of SQL JOINs
Here are the different types of the JOINs in SQL:

(INNER) JOIN: Returns records that have matching values in both tables
LEFT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the left table, and the matched records from the right table
RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table
FULL (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records when there is a match in either left or right table

Q9. Define keys and it types
Ans- Keys are one of the basic requirements of a relational database model. It is widely used to identify the tuples(rows) uniquely in the table. We also use keys to set up relations amongst various columns and tables of a relational database.

1. Candidate Key: The minimal set of attributes that can uniquely identify a tuple is known as a candidate key. For Example, STUD_NO in STUDENT relation.
2. Primary Key: There can be more than one candidate key in relation out of which one can be chosen as the primary key. It is a unique key and identify a tuple at a time and it contains no duplicate values. For Example, STUD_NO, as well as STUD_PHONE, are candidate keys for relation STUDENT but STUD_NO can be chosen as the primary key (only one out of many candidate keys). 
3. Super Key: The set of attributes that can uniquely identify a tuple is known as Super Key. For Example, STUD_NO, (STUD_NO, STUD_NAME), etc. 
4. Alternate Key: The candidate key other than the primary key is called an alternate key. All the keys which are not primary keys are called alternate keys.
5. Foreign key : It is a key it acts as a primary key in one table and it acts as secondary key in another table.
It combines two or more relations (tables) at a time.
6.Composite key : It acts as a primary key if there is no primary key in a table
Two or more attributes are used together to make a composite key.

			---------------------------------------------GIT HUB---------------------------------

Q1. Commands for the github to push the project into his repository
Ans- 
…or create a new repository on the command line
echo "# SpringBootTwilioSMS" >> README.md
git init		--> to initialize the local repository in that particular folder
git status		--> Use git status in your bash to view all the files which are going to be staged to the first commit.
git add 'file name'	--> to move the files in stage environment 
git remote add origin "https://github.com/CodeWithIQ/SpringBootTwilioSMS.git"  --> to sync our local repository with the remote repository
git commit -m "Add existing project files to Git" -->  confirmation that which adds the change to the local repository.
git branch -M master   	// for first use
git push -u origin master  -->is used for pushing local content to GitHub.

-->Fill in your GitHub username and password.

…or push an existing repository from the command line 
git remote add origin https://github.com/CodeWithIQ/SpringBootTwilioSMS.git
git branch -M master
git push -u origin master